[Music]  hi my name is ayden gabrizev here i'm  the owner and founder of makina cafe  today i'm going to be showing you guys  how to make dora it is the national dish  of ethiopia and also eaten in eritrea  so this process is something that you  absolutely cannot expedite you have to  be patient you have to make sure you  clean up the chicken really really well  the way that you serve it is you  actually serve the entire chicken as 12  pieces  that goes into the dorowitz the skin by  itself is one part but we're here in the  us and i don't like the skin that much  so i like to remove it if you don't have  time to do an entire chicken the best  part at least  for me is the dark part this process  back home when they cook this dish  just cleaning of the chicken is almost  like a half a day process you have  somebody that's gonna go and get an  actual like live chicken they kill it  unfortunately sorry you skin it  um and you actually completely part the  chicken into 12 pieces so you just kind  of pierce it a little bit  so that when you cook it you want to  make sure the juice  and all the sauce also goes in there  which gives it even better flavor  we just soak it in  cold water right here and just pour it  and i'll cut about two or so lemons  squeeze it in  leave it in there i will leave it for  about 30 minutes to an hour or so you  want to make sure you go back and wash  it again and rinse it and re-rinse it in  the meantime the most important part  which is the onion we're going to get  started with that so you're going to  need a lot of onions for this we use red  onions why all my ancestors use red  onions also white onions has extra water  so you're going to be cooking this and  stewing it and simmering it for a long  time for many hours so you want to make  sure that you want to get an onion one  has a lot of flavor and then number two  it also doesn't release a lot of water i  prefer to to chop it up into um  finer chops but it's up to you if you  want to chop it into bigger pieces or if  you want to do it in a faster way and  use a processor you can also do that  just make sure you don't completely  puree the onion and it's okay if you cry  as well i'm surprised i'm not crying  maybe i'll start in a little bit  this dish is enjoyed best when you cook  it at home you can enjoy it at a  restaurant but it's usually because it  takes a very long time the best dorothy  will ever have is at somebody's house so  what i'm gonna do is i'm gonna go ahead  and add the onions no oil no nothing i'm  gonna put it on medium heat you're just  gonna let the onions sweat the water out  this process by itself takes about an  hour or so you want to make sure the red  onion is completely cooked not only is  it completely cooked  it changes its color from you know what  it is right now into uh a brown  and we're just gonna continue to stir  so your arm is gonna be your best of  friends today in the meantime i'm gonna  chop up some garlic and some ginger  throw it in there  just add a little bit of oil  we have this paste in almost every  household so as you can see the onions  are slowly changing color looking so  beautiful we're just going to continue  to mix it we're going to add some boiled  eggs at the end so we're going to boil  some eggs about six or so of them i'm  going to bring the water to boil add a  little bit of salt drop in the the eggs  in there cook for about  15 or so minutes your main job is to pay  attention to this you don't want the the  onions to stick to the bottom and burn  it and so you're constantly stirring so  you're mixing it coming back after five  minutes mixing it again coming back if  you skip this process you're not going  to get the same result that sweetness  that earthy taste that it has after you  take your first bite you're not gonna  get that as well the eggs are almost  done  so i'm just gonna take it out so we're  just gonna peel the eggs one of the  reasons why i love the egg is it's a  nice break from the spice and what you  want to do is you want to  cut it a little bit  we do this so that the sauces can go  inside this is the last thing that we're  going to add  before the dish is complete now the most  exciting part the onion has been cooking  for an hour and some change it is nice  and beautiful and brown so i'm gonna add  a little bit of oil  and then i'm gonna add  my  paste ginger and garlic i've lowered  down the temperature around this time i  want to make sure the flavors don't cook  too fast so i have it on  on medium low berbere is really the  backbone of every ethiopian and eritrean  cooking this is a spicy dish  by itself so you can kind of gauge in  how spicy you want it  but i like to put about  four or so depending on the type of  burberry it is  if you've had ethiopian food original  food or never had it  this is pretty much what we use in  almost a lot of our cooking anything  that you see red it's made with barbari  this is very important you don't want to  put this on high heat you want to make  sure that your breadberry doesn't burn  and so you're going to just keep  stirring and if it looks like it's a  little bit  on the on the drier side i like to keep  hot water close to me so i'll just pour  in a little bit of tad bit and i just  you're just gonna continue to stir  that's all you're gonna do this  particular spice blend is my absolute  absolute  favorite it is almost every household  they make it their own version of it  it's about seven or eight spices that's  mixed in together chili pepper is the  main one you add cardamom you add cumin  dried ginger dried red onion pretty much  any dried that you can think of i love  this not only just to make the stews but  i feel like it's one of those like  underrated spices  the next spice that we're gonna add is  uh cardamom so we're just gonna do a  sprinkle of this another thing that  we're going to add is sesame  clarified butter  other people they call it ghee but ghee  is a little bit different this has a lot  of flavor you don't need to use too much  of it you just need to use a small  amount of it but you can find this at  any eritrean ethiopian store i'm going  to add just enough for the flavor  which i'll put about  one or so  you also don't want to add too much oil  just simply because you are gonna add  butter  so in regards to the water this is  really up to your preference if you like  your dough thick then you add less water  if you like it more on the stewie side  then you add more water it is time for  the chicken to go in there and continue  to cook so they've been sitting and  soaking in the water for the last hour  or some change i'm just going to rinse  it up and drop it in here you want to  keep washing it until the water is  completely clear  we've washed it several times we're just  gonna  mix it in together and we're just gonna  let the onion and the chicken cook  really well we're gonna keep checking on  it every few minutes just to make sure  that it's cooking well and you're mixing  it well and the chicken is  cooked thoroughly i'm gonna cover it  we're gonna cook the chicken for about  40 minutes or so the last couple of  steps that we have is we're going to add  in my kadasha this is optional but i  highly recommend it it has very similar  spices as the uh the clarified butter  as the sesame or ebay or even the  burberry except the ones that's in here  are more like nutmeg cinnamon so they're  more like the warmer spices so you just  need to put a tad bit so make sure you  don't put a lot because that can  overpower the dish the chicken has been  cooking for about 40 minutes or so it  looks really good  and i'm just gonna sprinkle this  very little not too much and then i'm  just gonna drop in the egg  there we go i don't want to mix it too  much sprinkle in  some salt just to taste this is up to  your preference i'm going to cover this  again cook it for another 10 minutes and  we will be ready to serve this dish i'm  so excited  all right  look at that that looks so good this  takes me automatically  to my mom's my dad's house  when they used to cook this dish our  food is very communal  and so we usually eat with like family  and a big tray in the middle  and the dorawa goes in the middle and  then you have all different um side  dishes we have what we call injera  that's our sourdough flatbread  and i see a fork and a knife over here  but we don't do that over here we eat  with our hands so make sure your hands  are clean take a little bit of the sauce  i like to take a nice bite a little bit  of the egg get a little bit of the trick  it is so those are ready i'm gonna take  a nice bite  the onion that has been cooking for  hours with that berberi it almost like  melts in your mouth it has a caramelized  sweet  aftertaste to it it's spicy  and the the boiled egg does a very good  job cutting that spice we have this  beautiful dish  at our place you can find us we move  around so you can go to  makinacafenyc.com and for a full recipe  click the link below  [Music]  you